Next up we got niche research
and validation, which is just finding s plus tier niches
that actually make money.
And by s plus tier, I just mean super,
super good niches that actually make money.
Now, the niche research framework,
your niche determines 80% of your success.
A bad niche with perfect execution will fail.
A great niche with decent execution will succeed.
Meaning kind of like what I said in module two.
Um, even if you have the best thumbnail, the best video,
if your niche is bad, you'll get zero views.
Um, and the opposite is true as well, um,
as unfortunate as it is.
But you know, you could be in a situation
where if you don't really know what you're doing,
you could get into a bad niche
and put a ton of work into it, um, and get no views.
And somebody else could make really bad
thumbnails, really bad videos.
But if they're in the perfect niche where YouTube's like,
this audience really wants these types of videos
and nobody's there to make these videos,
and then somebody comes in with really bad thumbnails,
really bad videos, but it's in that niche that YouTube wants
to give an audience to, well, guess what?
They're gonna get at least some views.
Even if they have the worst content on YouTube,
they'll at least get some views, which is more than no views
that you would get in a bad niche, even with great content.
So what I'm saying as well is that if it's a great niche,
even if they're content is just mediocre,
it will blow up crazy,
especially if it's like the best niche available on YouTube.
Even if their thumbnails like a five outta 10 a, like it's,
it's clickable somewhat,
and their video's watchable somewhat not good,
they will get hundreds of thousands or millions of views.
Um, that's just how it works.
Uh, but of course, if they had a better CTR better
thumbnail, then they would get 10 times the
results that they would've gotten.
So that's why that's super important.
So step one, identify your niche pool.
A niche pool is all channels in your sub niche
that match your content style.
This is your competitive landscape.
Now, we talked about a niche.
We talked about pretty much what a niche is, right?
It's the category, your videos, I gave the example
of a baking channel, but there are two things.
The niche is split into two different sections.
And what that is, is the broad niche, right?
Remember this, write this down, the broad niche.
And the other end is the sub niche.
The sub niche, broad niche. It's like a math equation.
Broad niche plus sub niche equals channel niche, okay?
And I know that sounds super simple,
that sounds super basic, but
that's just how it works, right?
Uh, the ch uh, the channel niche just
consists of two things, right?
You could either do it vice versa.
The channel niche is just split into two GA categories,
the sub niche and the broad niche.
Or you could do, uh, view it as the vice versa.
The sub niche plus the broad niche is the channel niche.
Um, both saying both
of those things is just saying the same thing.
I'll kind of explain what the difference is
between the broad niche and the sub niche.
And what you'll realize is
that every single channel on YouTube has a
broad niche and a sub niche.
Even if sometimes it's hard to tell,
I'd say 90% of channels.
Uh, once you learn what I'm about to tell you, uh,
you'll be able, able to identify what the broad niche is
and what the sub niche is.
Now, if you look at a channel,
and it looks like it's in the baking niche, for example, how
Can you determine what their broad niche and sub niche is?
Well, if you look at their videos
and their first video is how to bake a cookie cake.
The second one's how to bake a chocolate cake.
The third one's how to bake a lava cake.
The next one, how to bake an apple pie.
You know that the broad niche is cooking,
it's a cooking channel, right?
But the sub niche is baking, right?
So broad niche is cooking.
Sub niche is baking, like baking desserts, right?
So this channel niche is a baking desserts channel, okay?
That's what they're, they're doing,
they're te they're doing tutorials on baking desserts.
Now, more specifically, if we, we go to, uh,
another example I gave before, right?
With basketball, if you have an NBA
highlights channel, right?
The broad niche, this one's pretty easy.
The broad niche is basketball
and the sub niche is highlights.
Okay? It's really that simple.
Like the examples I'm giving are super specific,
but you might find some channels where it's harder.
I'm trying to give some easy examples here,
and trust me, this is important to know
because there's a lot of things you need to know, uh,
about the broad niches.
A lot of things you need to know about the sub niches
and things you need to know where they work together, uh,
when you're learning how to be successful with YouTube.
So it's just important to learn what a broad niche is,
what a sub niche is, uh, what the difference is
between the two, and be able to just go on YouTube
and be like, this channel, here's the broad niche,
here's the sub niche, this channel, here's the broad niche,
here's the sub niche on any channel.
Once you're, uh, able to do that, it's not too complicated
to do if you just spend an hour kind of figuring it out.
Um, but it's, it's pretty important.
Like another example I could give is you could
have a gaming channel, right?
Uh, where the gamer is playing Call of Duty.
In this case you might think, well,
the broad niche is gaming and the sub niche is Call of Duty.
Well, that's just not correct.
And I could see how a lot
of people would assume that'd be correct based
on my prior examples.
Well, the niche of gaming is simply just too large.
I mean, I think Minecraft alone I think has like a trillion
views or something like that on YouTube.
So would you say Minecraft channels are in the broad niche
of gaming and the sub niche of Minecraft?
Well, no. A sub niche cannot have a trillion views, right?
Um, so essentially the broad niche isn't
necessarily the category.
Yes, a Minecraft channel is in the category of gaming,
but that's not what the broad niche is.
So, um, in this Call of Duty example, I'll give you,
you look at their channel and you find out their videos are
only about messing
with the little kids in the Call of Duty lobbies.
So in this case, the broad niche would actually be Call
of Duty, and the sub niche would be trolling videos.
Or if you're in Minecraft
and you only do, I guess this would be a niche example,
may not, maybe not everybody watching this would understand,
but if they're doing Minecraft Sky Wars, right?
Then their broad niche is actually Minecraft
and their sub niche is Sky Wars,
or if they make Minecraft building videos,
then it's broad niche is Minecraft.
Sub niche is building videos
and a broad niche can almost never get oversaturated, right?
A sub niche gets oversaturated when there's too
many creators in the niche.
Or if the audience is too small
where it can only be distributed to one
or two creators in the, in the sub niche.
Um, a broad niche can only get oversaturated if every single
sub niche in the broad niche, uh, gets oversaturated.
So an example, right?
Minecraft, the reason Minecraft can never get oversaturated
is just because you could pretty much just create new sub
niches, uh, just about whenever.
Um, now like I said, there might not always be an audience,
but the truth is, uh,
you can probably always find something in the Minecraft
broad niche, a sub niche under the Minecraft broad niche
that, you know, YouTube would still recommend to viewers
and that, uh, there's an audience that exists for it,
but not enough creators or no creators at all
that are making content for it.
So, like I said, this is important to understand
for a sub niche to get oversaturated.
Either there's not enough audience
or there's too many creators or a mix of both.
For a broad niche to get saturated,
it's possible, but it's pretty rare.
Um, every single sub niche
to exist under the broad niche would have
to be either oversaturated or have too small of an audience.
Um, so yeah, that's pretty important to understand.
Hopefully you get that.
Keep in mind we always have the q
and a calls, so, uh, if you ever have any questions,
just join up and ask your question, right?
If you, if you're going through this, here's one
of my recommendations that I was talking about before.
Listen to these recommendations when I
specified it's a recommendation.
But if you're going through this
and you ever do have questions, write them down.
Because when you ask them to me and the q and a call
or to ada, not only can we answer your question,
but by you guys asking more, the more questions
that are asked, the more we can update these modules,
update this because trust me, the,
this looked a lot different when we first made this like
18, 19 months ago.
Um, this is the, I believe the third iteration of this.
Uh, and each one, this one is by far the best
because I think the first one we updated like six months in,
so it's been almost a year
or something like that since we've updated the modules.
Um, and the biggest thing isn't necessarily YouTube changing
their algorithm or anything like that.
It's more so us figuring out what people don't understand
and which parts people do.
So we can take redundant stuff out and add more stuff in.
So although you might be like, oh, you know, I'm nervous
to ask questions, like that's what you're here for.
And actually we want you to ask questions
'cause it helps us make the community better.
And the more questions you ask,
you'll get your personal questions answered
and then that'll actually make the community better.
So I really encourage you guys to write questions down, uh,
so that you remember them, uh,
when you join the q and a calls.
Now let's go back to step one,
which is identify your niche pool.
I had to go over what a bra niche and a sub niche was.
The niche pool is all channels in your sub niche
that match your content style.
So pretty much all the competitors in a sub niche,
let's use Minecraft, sky Wars as an example.
Or actually let's go to Call of Duty trolling.
'cause I think just about everybody watching this uh, knows
what color of duty is and knows what trolling people is.
So we'll do broad niche, call
of duty sub niche is trolling videos.
So in this case, you want to look at all the competitors.
So all the people and your competitor is somebody that's
In your channel niche. And
what's a channel niche?
You should be able to answer this.
It's the broad niche plus the sub niche.
So somebody who's in the exact same broad niche
and exact same sub niche.
You could have the same broad niche in a different sub niche
and that's not your competitor.
You could have a different,
you could have the same broad niche
and a different sub niche and that's not your competitor.
So it could be Call of Duty,
but instead it's competitive gameplay, right?
That's not your competitor. Uh, and same thing, vice versa.
You could have the same sub
niche but a different broad niche.
For example, instead of Call of Duty, you could do halo
or battlefield like battlefield trolling.
So the broad niche is actually different
where it's battlefield, but the sub niche is trolling.
And that's not your competitor either.
In some cases it could be close to a competitor,
it could be a similar audience watching those videos.
For our purposes we're gonna say
that's just not your direct competitor.
So pretty much the niche pool is just all
of your competitors in your channel niche,
which is broad niche and sub niche.
So both have to match.
And the niche pool specifically is all the videos combined.
So let's say in the Call of Duty trolley niche,
the first channel has 30 videos.
The second channel has 70 videos,
and the third channel has a hundred videos, right?
And there's three channels in the niche.
That would mean that the niche pool is 200,
there are 200 videos across all channels.
So yes, the first channel only has 30 videos,
the second one has 70, and the third one has a hundred
add all of their video counts together.
And that is the niche pool.
So in this case it would be 200,
'cause 30 plus 70 is a hundred,
a hundred plus a hundred is 200.
Those are your three channels that come up
with a niche pool of 200.
So you gotta identify your niche pool.
How many videos are in the niche pool?
Step two, the S tier criteria.
Every niche must pass all of these tests.
So many people, and I get this no matter how much,
like even in the last modules, I emphasize this,
emphasize this really hard,
I emphasize this every day in calls, every q
and a, like you'll, you'll pretty much hear this in every
call I'm in that I'm hosting.
I will say this. Uh, and
because people will keep bringing me niches
that don't match all these tests.
And the thing is making sure something matches all the tests
is like double checking your answers on a quiz or a test.
Um, it's not really too hard to do, especially like this.
Like you just gotta look sure
and kind of just make sure, uh, it's like
make sure you follow the steps
to making a recipe when you're cooking or something.
It's really not too complicated to do.
Um, but a lot of people will just get lazy.
That's why they end up presenting me channels
that don't match all the criteria.
So the first criteria,
and this is probably one
of the most important things you're gonna learn in all
of this, uh, and keep in mind everything's important.
But like I would say this weighs pretty high.
Number one channel age.
So the age of the channel must be less than six months old.
And you look at this by sorting their videos by oldest,
don't look at their actual channel age
as in when their channel was created
because that just doesn't matter.
You wanna make sure their first video, um,
is within the last six months.
So the way you do this is you sort their uploads by oldest
and the oldest one should say five months ago.
Because when it says five months, that could be five months,
three weeks and six days.
If it says six months is their oldest upload for example,
that actually means it's older than six months.
'cause it's at least six months in one day.
And six months is my cutoff.
The newer the channel is, the better it is.
Actually six months is possible.
So if it's like five months and three weeks,
it's possible but not optimal.
And as in me personally,
I don't even look at anything over three months.
Okay? My, for me personally, three months.
The thing is, it's possible to get into a niche that is up
to six months old, but it is pretty rare for it to work.
And anything over six months, it's more than likely very,
very, very high chance it will not work.
So there's no point in even looking at it.
Of course, there's gonna be outliers,
like maybe some niches can still work
where the competitors eight months old,
but it's just such a low percent
that this is just not the way I teach it
because I wanna make sure you guys have the highest
percentage of success,
even if it makes it harder to find a niche.
I'd rather say, Hey, if you follow all my criteria,
you have a 80% chance of uh,
your channel working out than hey, you know, you can, you,
I can suggest you follow my criteria,
but then if I do that, then a bunch of people will be lazy
and not care about my criteria.
And then the success rate will go from let's say 80% if you
match all the criteria to 10%, right?
And like I said, it's, that would mean it's still possible,
but I'm teaching.
We're just gonna assume that it's not possible
because it just makes it easier to teach within six months.
It has to be, if you want us to look at it
or you wanna start, if it's over, don't even think about it.
Um, I would personally recommend if it's between three
and six, I would still not look at it.
But if all the other things look amazing, um,
in the criteria, then sure go for it.
You can have us look at it,
but I promise you I'll mention the age if
it's in, in that timeframe.
So if we want it to be really great,
we need it to be within three months.
So I kinda even listed six months is possible
but not optimal.
Uh, and everything in between six months
and three months is gonna be the same answer to the right.
So when I move to the left, it'll be
the same answers to the right.
So anything between six
and three months is possible but not optimal.
Anything between three and two months is average.
That's average, right? Average isn't bad, it's just average.
Anything between two months and one month is good.
A keep mind. Like, like I said, if it's,
if it says two months old, that means it's actually more,
more than likely that actually means it's
in between two and three months.
'cause if it says two months, it means
that oldest video's older than two months.
So between two and one month, between one month
and one week is great.
And anything that's a week
or newer, this is like s plus tier.
If you can find something that's within a week old
and it meets all the other criteria,
this is like I would say 90% chance
that your channel is going
to get monetized relatively quickly.
Now that's the first criteria, right?
Once again, channel age has to be less than six months.
The newer it is the better.
Number two, the channel you find has
to have 15 videos or less.
This one I'm a little bit more lenient on.
If it's like a little bit up, like it's up to 20,
this is fine, but this is ideal.
15 videos or less.
You're not gonna see much difference
between if there's like seven videos or 12, right?
It's not this much of a difference
where the newer it is, the better.
Um, the less the videos of course the better.
But I'd say it's not as big of a deal as the channel age.
The channel age is gonna be the big difference maker, uh,
in terms of like between these options.
So the difference between 15 and 14
and 13 videos is gonna be so small.
Like it'll exist the difference. Um, but it'll be marginal.
Uh, marginal. So the more videos in a niche,
the more competition for viewer
attention before they see your content.
'cause a lot of people don't realize, even if there's only
one competitor in your niche,
let's say they have 30 videos, right?
When you go to upload your first video, you're like, oh,
my first video is competing against their latest video.
No, that's not how it works.
I'm sure you may know this kind of in the back of your head,
but a lot of people don't realize this
at the forefront of their mind.
But you realize like when you're going on YouTube, most
of the videos you're watching are not, you know,
an hour old or two hours old.
They sometimes are three months old
or seven months old or a year old.
Um, let's say we're only looking within three months, right?
And let's assume all the videos you're watching
on YouTube are within three months.
You could still be watching two month old videos
and let's say that channels uploading once a week, that
that is a video they uploaded a long time ago, right?
And the reason I'm mentioning this is
because if a channel is doing well
and they're your competitor, uh, probably all
of their videos are doing well.
And what this means is YouTube doesn't stop
pushing out those views.
I have, uh, a channel for example, that I stopped running
over a year ago.
Um, I think it it was like September of 2024
that I stopped running it somewhere around there.
And it still makes me $500 to $700 a month.
And the reason I don't upload in the channel anymore is
because the niche died.
Like whenever I upload new videos for whatever reason,
just doesn't get views, which is fine.
The first few months I ran it, I was making like five
to $10,000 and it died.
It happens sometimes. But the point of learning all this is
so that you know, you can get your
success rate as high as possible.
You shouldn't expect to make one channel
and boom, you're set for life.
You know, you gotta constantly evolve.
Some channels do last a very long time.
I've had channels last years,
but the reason I'm mentioning this is
because all of the videos are like one
to two years old at this point.
And the channel still brings me $500 a month.
I honestly like view it, Hey,
my groceries every month are free
and I just say it's 'cause of that channel.
So when I go to buy groceries, I'm like, Hey,
I can spend really whatever I want
and I don't look at the price just
because I'm like this one channel
that's like a stupid way to think of it.
And this once again isn't anything about learning,
but it's just like, uh, an interesting way to think.
So what I'm really trying to paint the picture here is
to make sure that you understand that um,
when you upload your video,
you're not competing against just the latest video,
you're competing against every single
video on their channel.
So imagine the best way to view it.
This isn't the literal way it works,
but the best way to view it is,
let's say you're going into a ch uh, a niche
and there's only one competitor and they have 30 videos.
Let's say when you upload your first video,
you are not competing your video versus their latest video.
You're competing your video to their 30 videos.
Imagine it as if all
of their 30 videos were uploaded at the exact same time
as your first video, as your one video.
'cause that's how YouTube's algorithm sees it.
Um, so it's
as if 30 videos are being uploaded on his channel
and one's being uploaded at the same time.
Just view it like that. Of course that's not how it works,
but just view it like that and then you'll understand why
this is important, okay?
Um, so that's why it's 15 videos or less.
Now, here are some ideal targets.
You want five or fewer total channels in the specific niche.
Once you're over five, typically this is an issue.
Now this actually doesn't really matter.
I know you might be like, oh, why
does it say it here if it doesn't matter?
And that's because of this next thing.
You want less than 50 videos in the niche pool.
And typically if there are five or fewer,
or if there are five or more channels in the niche,
like five or more competitors, then 99.999%
of the time there's gonna be more than
50 videos in the niche pool.
If you don't remember what the niche pool is,
no point in me really explaining it.
Just rewind the video back to where I talked about it.
You want less than 50 videos in the niche pool.
So let's say there are four total competitors
and each one of them has 14 videos, right?
So they all have 15 videos or less.
But the problem here is that 14 times four,
that's 56, right?
And that's more than 50 videos in the niche pool.
So even though there's less than five competitors
and they each have less than 15 videos
or less, this is actually oversaturated.
'cause there's more than 50, uh, videos in the niche pool.
So the real thing that only matters out
of ideal targets is this less
than 50 videos in the niche pool.
If it goes over by a little bit, it's fine.
If it's like 51 50, like if, if, if the other stats allow
for it, this is fine,
but we want as lower as possible, right?
So the five or fewer channels doesn't really matter.
But this is just like a general basis.
Like if you're seeing more than five channels in a niche,
no point in going and checking
how many videos each of these channels have.
'cause 99% of the time,
that would just automatically mean there's more than 50
videos in the niche tool, which is why I wrote this here.
Now, here is, and I'm getting close to the mic
because here is the most important part of this module
and it's these two things.
I'm gonna go over them and I'm going to,
I'm not gonna go over them for too long,
but just remember, like when you are writing this in your
notes, write both of these down,
quadruple star them, whatever this needs to be.
The most started thing on your paper or most bolded thing
or highlighted or whatever,
the number one most common mistake.
And before, actually, before I even say it,
the number two most common mistake only occurs
if you don't make the number one most common mistake.
And this actually is so like heartbreaking
to see when somebody makes the second most common mistake
because they, they, they went outta their way
to miss the first one, which is amazing, right?
And then they mess up. Now let's go over them, right?
The most common mistake is finding an okay niche
and starting immediately because you're excited.
This is a trap. It is literally a trap.
Like you find something that it's three months old,
there's exactly 50 videos in the niche pool
with five channels.
Like there's five channels.
They each have 10 videos and it's like four months
old, for example, right?
It technically meets all the criteria.
Um, but this is just not good, okay?
Um, that would be like a pretty subpar niche.
Or maybe you find a niche where, you know,
not all the criteria match,
which hopefully this is just not a question.
Do not even ask about, uh, niches
that don't match all of you.
And I'm talking every single criteria.
If it doesn't match every single criteria, just move on.
Trust me, just move on.
So assuming all everybody watching this agrees to follow
that rule, the number one most common mistake is finding an
okay niche and starting immediately because you're excited.
Because realistically, if the channel's three months old,
you wanna make up with it with the other stuff
that there's only 10 videos of the niche pool
and two competitors, right?
Um, or if the channel is a week old,
you don't want already five competitors with 10 videos.
You know what I mean? So this is
what I mean by an okay niche.
Like it meets the criteria, but it meets all them badly.
Like ideally you want a week old
with like 10 videos on the channel
and there's maybe only one other competitor in total 15
videos in the niche tool Like
that is something that'd be amazing, right?
But if any of these are like not good stats,
but they still technically meet it, you don't want all
of them to be like on the lower echelon of the criteria.
That's just not a good idea.
Instead, you should be searching
for niches every single day for one to three hours.
Only start once you find an to niche.
So only actually start your channel
once you find an S two niche.
This could take one day, it could take seven days,
it could take three weeks, keep searching.
For some people it could take even two months.
But let me tell you right now, it's gonna be better to look
for three hours a day every single day for two months.
If you get that, like this is very unlikely.
But if you get that unlucky that it takes you three hours a
day every single day for two months to find your good niche,
and then you get started and your first month you make
$20,000, and then from there you're making 20 k plus every
single month, uh, I think that's definitely worth it.
Instead of, you know, looking for a niche, getting bored,
like you're like, oh, I spent three hours a day
for five days in a row, right?
Or even I spent three hours a day for 10 days in a row.
Um, and then you're like, you know what?
This niche that I found yesterday, I'm done with all this.
I'm just gonna go and start it.
It, it met the criteria, but it was only okay, right?
If you end up doing that, then you're gonna fail.
And for most people that demotivates you,
realistically it shouldn't
because you always should learn from your failures.
But for most people, realistically, I'm gonna be realistic,
that's gonna demotivate you.
You don't wanna fail If you do,
like I said, that's totally okay.
And most people actually end up getting monetized on
their second or third channel.
That's pretty typical. So expect at least one failure.
Um, but at the same time, a lot
of people get monetized their first channel.
So don't, don't be like, oh, I'm for sure gonna fail.
Just, yeah, I kind of word that wrong.
Don't expect failure, expect for it to work.
Um, but just don't be like, oh, this isn't
for me if you fail once, 'cause it's pretty normal.
And then once you get one channel monetized, it's
so much easier to get the next and the next
and the next without failing anymore.
But anyways, like I said, it'd be better to look
for three hours a day every single day
for two months straight and then make 20 KA month
for the rest of your life.
Then, uh, search for two or three hours a day for 10 days.
Be like, you know what? I give up.
I'm just gonna pick this niche because it was good enough.
And then you end up not getting monetized, giving up
and then spending less time on this community
or just completely giving up.
Uh, and I'm saying this because like I said,
I've been running this for almost two years
and this happens a lot more than you'd think.
And I really don't want this
to be you if you're watching this.
I'm taking so much of my time and energy to recreate this.
'cause I really want people, if you, if like I said
before, if you are putting your faith in me,
this might sound like
always just saying this for the screen.
Like, you guys already paid to be in here.
Like realistically the money you, you paid
as already distributed to myself, my team, like now
that you're in here, I'm just being completely transparent.
I want you to succeed. I want you to succeed.
It makes me feel better. This is why I do this.
I would never, ever, for me personally get into any line
of work if I don't enjoy doing it.
I, I like teaching people this stuff
because when people end up making those posts being like at
Eddie Eisner on Instagram being like, this guy's, the reason
that I'm able to do this, this,
and it's like that, that type
of stuff at this point is what I live for.
Um, and I want more people to succeed.
It just the best thing ever.
And you know, I've been doing this for so long at this point
where this,
right now I feel super good about this entire little
document I'm showcasing because it's taking everything
I've learned from people, right?
Right. The first iteration did not have this number one most
common mistake written here
because I didn't really know
what the most common mistake was
before teaching enough people.
Now I know, and this is the most common mistake I see from
people that I have coached.
So just keep searching until you find this,
because even if theoretically like this would genuinely
never happen, but even if you spent three hours every day
or five hours every day for six months straight,
imagine you're then made 50 KA month
after that for every month for the rest of your life.
Would you not spend six months if you
knew that was gonna happen?
And I'll tell you, you have, you have a much better chance
of spending more time and finding amazing niche than giving
up and just going into a bad niche and then failing
and demotivating yourself.
The second most common mistake is you find a good niche.
Like you find a niche that's good.
And I know this might sound silly to some people,
but this probably happens as equally
as much as this one happened.
Number two, most common mistake is somebody finds a good
niche, like they find a niche, I'm like, this is great.
Get into it immediately.
And then they take too long to upload their first video.
And this is because every single second
that you wait increases competition.
Once you find a niche, maximize your workload immediately,
immediately drop everything you're doing.
If you find a good niche and you have a Dave telling you,
me telling you other coaches telling you
that this niche is immediate, uh, or sorry is very good
and you need to start immediately,
then you should cancel your plans.
Like, do whatever you need. Call outta work.
Like I like figure it out to get the video out
as fast as possible.
Um, and I'm exaggerating a little bit, like realistically,
you probably don't have to, but let's say you're spending
two to three hours a day just on the niche research.
The second we tell you, Hey, you have a great niche,
you need to be putting in like eight hours a day
until you get that first video out,
which could just take like three days
of working eight hours.
And sometimes you don't even need
to if the niche is super easy to get into.
But I'm saying if that's what it takes, uh,
if you're hearing this and that sounds scary to you,
I'm giving like the, you know, the kind of maximum output
that you could expect in some
niches, that's what might happen.
And you need to be ready for that.
Um, because if you really want this to be an, uh, a thing
where you're making like 10, 20,
a hundred thousand dollars a month, like Ada
and myself have done several like many,
many times in the past few years, then you just need
to be ready for something like that to happen.
Because think about it logically, right?
Let's think about this logically every single day
that you wait, once you find a good niche,
the channel age goes up.
And what did I say before I said
that the newer the channel is the better.
So you gotta realize that just
because you find an amazing niche when you find it.
If you upload, like, I'll give you an example.
If you find a a, a a channel that's one week old,
but then you wait two months to start, we're at the
between two and three months mark.
So even though yes, you found at s tier,
by the time you're uploading it's average.
And some people seriously, like,
I know this might sound silly like I said,
but this really, really does
happen a lot more than you think.
I'm telling you from experience, people will still think
that niche is S tier and then they'll
be confused why it failed, right?
I've seen multiple times they'll find something
that's a like really a week old
and they'll take like a month and a half to start it.
So now they're in between two and one month.
So it went from s plus tier to good, uh,
and then it doesn't perform as good as expected.
And then, you know, they're upset
and they're like, well, I thought it was an s plus tier.
Well, yes, it was when you found it
and it still has to, if you want it to be s plus tier,
it has to be s plus tier when you get your first video out.
That's how it works. And same thing,
not only will the channel age increase every single day
that you don't upload, but the competitors guess
what is gonna find more videos.
So let's say your competitor has 13 videos when you find it,
but by the time you upload your first
video, they have 20 videos.
Now, well guess what?
Now this doesn't even meet the criteria anymore, right?
It doesn't even meet the criteria.
So you're actually, now when you found it, it was, uh,
it had less than 15 videos.
But now when you get your first upload out,
it doesn't even meet the criteria.
Keep in on your channel has the number one meet the criteria
when you find it, obviously.
And number two, meet the criteria.
Once you get your your upload out,
and it ideally you do it,
you get your video quicker enough out to
where the niche doesn't get any worse or more saturated.
Number one, the niche is gonna get, uh, older every day.
You don't upload, it's gonna, your, uh,
competitor's gonna have more videos every day.
You don't upload, you're gonna have more competitors.
Maybe you have more than five competitors, uh,
before you upload or maybe more, all
of the competitors will upload.
And now when you first found it had 40 videos in the niche
pool, when you go to upload, it has 55.
Now it's not even in the criteria anymore.
Um, and that's really the second most common mistake.
So once you find that good niche, uh,
don't be like, oh, I found a niche.
I'm gonna ask Avi and Eddie in 10 days from now.
And then once they, then once they gimme the, okay,
I'm gonna wait a month to start my niche, it's like, no,
you, you find a good niche.
Try and get, whether it's me or get somebody, a coach
or anybody in the community, there's a ton
of people in the community that are
already monetized making money.
Even if you can't get a, a reply from from us immediately,
once you get that reply, immediately start, get to work
and try and get that video out.
I have a rule for myself whenever I find a niche,
if I can't get the first video out within 72 hours,
if I have like IRL personal plans, something going on
where I can't, and for me it's fine
because I'm, I already have enough channels to
where it's not gonna be the end of the world.
This has happened to me several times
where I find a great niche
and I'm like, I just can't start this at the moment,
so I don't, and if I can't get it out within 72 hours,
then I just end up just dropping
the niche and I don't do it anymore.
And 72 hours is my max.
By the way, you'll not believe
how many channels I've started where I got my video out
within 24 hours of finding the niche.
I'd say on average it takes me 48 hours,
my maximum will be 72 if it's over
that I don't even bother anymore.
And within 24 has definitely happened a few times.
Now let's go over the sub niche swap strategy.
If you start a niche that meets age and video count criteria
but has too many competitors, right?
So what do you do if you find a niche
that's only one month old
and the channel has less than 15, uh, videos?
So let's say for example, it's five weeks old.
It the competitor is 10 videos,
but then you go to look for the competitors,
the ideal targets here,
which is part of the criteria, right?
Uh, but the ideal targets is more
so oversaturation criteria like these two i i one
and two I kind of view as this is the criteria for the niche
and the ideal targets is the criteria
for if it's oversaturated or not.
And the reason this is actually separated into one, two
and then a separate category that has two things in it,
um, is actually pretty simple.
And that's for this sub niche swap strategy.
Um, so you definitely need meet all these criteria,
but you can get away with just meeting one and two, right?
Let's say it's five weeks old and there's 12 videos, right?
What you can do is the sub niche swap strategy.
And this is assuming, right?
Let's say there's just like eight competitors
and 70 videos in the niche pool.
Uh, but the niche is only a month old
and the first competitor you found, the guy that you found
that's doing well only has 12 videos
and keep mind By the way,
competitors doesn't mean competitors that are doing good.
It means like anyone that's uploading the niche,
even if they're doing bad, you want
to identify the broad niche in the sub niche,
stay in the same broad niche,
but switch to a different sub niche
that's gonna have either no competition or less competition.
Here's an example, right?
You have broad niche true crime,
and the sub niche is serial killer documentaries.
So you check and the channel
that you find is five weeks old, they only have 12 videos,
but then you check and there's eight people in the niche,
70 videos, or in this case I wrote 200 videos, uh, in the
niche pool, then you could just swap
to a different sub niche.
So stay in true crime
but swap to unsolved cold cases in the same style.
So the videos are in the same style,
same length than everything like that
as the original channel niche,
but you're just switching the sub niche
to unsolved cold cases.
And in this case, maybe there's, uh,
only two other competitors
and they have a total of 40 videos in this niche pool.
Then you could do that.
Now I'm gonna say right now I would recommend this one.
I'm gonna say not necessarily you have to listen to this,
but just like a a slight recommendation.
Um, if you are, if this is like your first channel
that you're ever starting, I probably would not do this just
because it's a little bit harder to get right.
Uh, if you've like already started a channel not necessarily
monetized or like you already have some experience
or you have a monetized channel
before you could definitely attempt to do this,
but I'd say the success rate's gonna be a little bit lower
on the sub niche swap strategy.
But typically with sub niche swap strategy, you actually,
uh, can see some better results
because well, there's gonna be less competition.
So you could see it's kind of like risk reward at play here.
Um, it's a little riskier,
but you can make a little bit more money doing
it in some cases.
So I definitely wouldn't recommend this if you're a complete
beginner and you've never even
tried to run a channel before.
Um, but just know that you can do this
and going back, uh, one thing I need to add here
because, uh, to the criteria, I totally forgot
to write this down here,
but of course good thing I'm recording so I I remembered.
But one extra criteria is you want the view count on
the channels to be consistent.
If you see a channel where they're getting like a hundred K
views, one video and then 4K views, one video,
that's not good unless it's like a
channel that's uploading daily.
Now you, I could explain this in a very complicated way,
but the easiest way to do it is just go
to like social blade or view stats.
Uh, if you just search it on Google, these are just websites
where you can check, uh, video counts on a channel
and pull up the competitors,
pull up the main channel you found,
and their view count ideally should be pretty,
pretty consistent every single day, right?
So, um, if you have a channel
where it's like on Monday they got, uh, 200,000 views,
then the next four days they got like 7,000 views
and then they get 50,000 views
and then 1000 views the next few
days and then a million views.
Like even though the views can be good on some days,
you don't want to get into that channel.
You want the daily view count on
a channel to be pretty consistent.
A lot of people will mess up
and look at just the video view count.
Um, and this really only applies a social blade strategy.
If the channel is uploading, I would say daily
or multiple times a day, if the channel is uploading,
let's say three times a week
or less than that, then you can actually just look at the,
um, videos themselves
and the the the, the stats will show the same thing.
But let's say a channel is uploading three times a week
or less than just simply just look at their video view count
and you should easily be able
to spot a median views and not average.
If you don't know the difference between
media and average, just look it up.
But the most common number, right?
So we want to see, um, let's say a channel,
they have 10 videos and seven of the videos have between 50
and 70,000 views.
Uh, or what did I say?
Yeah, seven of the videos have between 50 and 70,000 views.
One of them has 400,000 views.
One of them has 20,000 views
and one of them has like 90,000 views.
That would be pretty good, right?
Most of the channels are in the same range,
or most of the videos on the channel are
in the same view range.
And then there are a few outliers, one that did really well
and one that didn't do super well.
And that's what you wanna look for.
You don't wanna see, um, you know,
their first video has a hundred thousand views,
then the next one has 2000, the next one has 7,000,
the next one has 300,000 views
and the next one has 10,000, the next one has 800, right?
That is just not good looks, uh, if it's three times
or less, like I said, the um,
look at the daily view count on social blade review stats.
Only if the channel uploads once every single day
or more than once every day.
If they're uploading less than once a day,
then just simply look at their, uh, videos
and their view counts
and there should be like a consistent range of the views.
If it's kind of like jumping up
and down, like imagine, you know, you got x and Y access
and you got the, the number of views
and it's jumping like this on a channel
that's uploading less than once a day, that is not good.
Even if all the criteria is met, that is not good.
This is a reason you kind of wanna ask us, ask coaches,
ask other people that monetize channels.
If this is a good niche you should get into.
Um, I wouldn't necessarily go
and ask the in the general chat
because somebody might take your niche,
but if you can ask the coaches, um, either myself a Davi
or any other coaches, none
of us would take your niche for sure.
We've been running this for two years, never happened once.
Um, that's 'cause we run enough channels
and we understand that the coaches that we, uh,
have in here learned from us in this community.
So, you know, they know not to do that.
So I can assure you, you don't have to worry about that,
but that's why you kind of wanna a review
of your channel in the meetings.
Like you can ask and DM so that, uh, and we won't reveal it
and we can kind of just say, yeah,
this is good, or yeah, this is bad.
So even if, um, a channel meets all the criteria,
it could still be bad due
to something like an inconsistent view count.
So keep that in mind and
that's why you wanna look at consistent view count.
That one's gonna be the hardest criteria to nail down
and that's probably the most common one
where I see people get it wrong
and they kind of send me channels
that meet all the criteria, but then the view count
is very inconsistent.
Um, so that's why number one, that's an important criteria.
Um, I didn't list it there
because that's kind of like the,
the hardest one to get right.
Um, until you, once you kind of get a few channels reviewed,
you can understand it from there.
But that's why that's an important criteria
and that's also why you should ask for a view
of your cha uh, of a niche
before you get into it from one of the coaches
or from somebody that just knows what they're doing,
which could be a friend you made in the community
that has a few monetized channels, for example.
So you might be thinking when to quit a niche
and I'm not gonna like sit here and BS
and make up some stuff, you know,
some niches just don't go well.
Um, you know, knowing when to pivot is as important
as knowing when to start because you don't wanna waste time,
especially if you're spending money on creating your videos.
Not everybody in here will,
some people might spend like 500 to a thousand videos.
Some people might spend, uh,
most people will probably be spending
like a lot less than that.
But just an example where some people are doing all this
stuff themselves and spending zero video, it doesn't matter.
You don't wanna waste your time or your money
or a mixture of your time and your money.
Um, so consider pivoting.
If you have three to five videos with no traction at all,
um, competitors suddenly, suddenly explode a number.
Like out of nowhere a bunch of people get into your niche.
The niche pool exceeds 50 videos
before any of your videos start getting traction.
Or if the original competitors stop uploading,
this happens a lot and that's typically a pretty bad sign.
Um, this doesn't happen that much though.
Like the, like, um, I meant
to say this happens more than you would think.
This is, uh, not that common of a,
these are four things I would write down
that I would consider pivoting.
The only case I would say that three to five videos
of zero traction to keep going is if you're doing a
channel where you upload daily.
The only thing is, is channels where you upload daily
or more kind of work a little bit differently just
'cause you're pushing out so much content.
This isn't gonna be most niches, like I'd say 10 to 20%
of niches are daily or more.
Um, but if you do find a niche like that
or you're in a niche like that, then I would, instead
of doing three to five videos, I would wait probably seven
to 10 days of getting no traction.
And that's gonna be it for, uh, module three.
This was the longest of the three so far,
but you know, the niche by far just the most important,
it makes or breaks everything.
So this one, this is like, if you're gonna watch, uh,
you should be watching at least twice you, uh,
by watching us agreed to watch all these at least
twice kind of.
Um, but this is one of the ones
that I would maybe watch three times.
This one's super important
or at least take some really extensive notes here.
Uh, I'll see you guys.